README.md, before:

# Executive Disorder

**A satirical political decision-making game where you manage a nation through chaos, scandal, and absurd situations.**

Balance 4 critical resources, interact with 10 unique political characters, and navigate 100+ decision cards to reach one of 10 unique endings.

*Democracy: Optional. Chaos: Guaranteed.*

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 🤖 Codex CLI Command

**Everything automated in one command:**
```bash
update
```

This triggers GitHub Copilot to assist Codex CLI with:
- ✅ Unity WebGL builds
- ✅ Automated commits & version control
- ✅ Build optimization & debugging
- ✅ Script creation & updates
- ✅ Documentation & deployment

### New Implementation Available!

**Character Selection System** is now fully implemented and documented!

👉 **Start here**: Read `QUICKSTART.md` for immediate setup

📚 **Full documentation**: See `docs/INDEX.md` for all guides

---

## 📦 What's Included

### ✅ Complete Character Selection System
- **10 Political Characters** - Fully defined with stats, bios, and abilities
- **Unity Scene Architecture** - Complete UI hierarchy and prefabs
- **AI Integration** - DALL-E 3 portraits + ElevenLabs voices
- **Audio System** - Full AudioManager integration
- **Production Scripts** - 6 ready-to-use C# components

### 🎨 Asset Library
- **40 PNG Images** - Backgrounds, characters, UI elements
- **22 MP3 Audio Files** - Music, SFX, ambience
- **Complete Time-of-Day System** - Morning/Afternoon/Night backgrounds
- **All Resource Icons** - Popularity, Stability, Media, Economy

### 📚 Comprehensive Documentation
- **8 Detailed Guides** - From quick start to technical specs
- **Asset Analysis** - Every file mapped and explained
- **Step-by-Step Tutorials** - Build scenes with confidence
- **AI Backend Reference** - Test and integrate AI features

---

## 🎯 Getting Started

### 1. Quick Overview (5 minutes)
```bash
Read: QUICKSTART.md
```

### 2. Understand Your Assets (10 minutes)
```bash
Read: docs/AssetInventoryAnalysis.md
```

### 3. Create Characters (30 minutes)
```bash
Read: docs/CharacterDataSetup.md
Then: Create 10 character ScriptableObjects in Unity
```

### 4. Build Character Selection Scene (45 minutes)
```bash
Read: docs/UnitySceneSetupGuide.md
Then: Follow step-by-step instructions
```

### 5. Test AI Integration (15 minutes)
```bash
Read: docs/AIBackendQuickReference.md
Then: Use AIBackendTester.cs to verify connectivity
```

**Total Time to Working Prototype**: 2-3 hours

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
ExecutiveDisorderReplit/
├── QUICKSTART.md                    ⭐ Start here!
├── README.md                        ← You are here
│
├── docs/                            📚 All documentation
│   ├── INDEX.md                     ← Documentation index
│   ├── ImplementationSummary.md     ← Complete overview
│   ├── AssetInventoryAnalysis.md    ← Asset deep dive
│   ├── AssetUsageMap.md             ← Visual asset guide
│   ├── CharacterDataSetup.md        ← 10 character definitions
│   ├── UnitySceneSetupGuide.md      ← Scene building steps
│   ├── AIBackendQuickReference.md   ← AI API documentation
│   └── CharacterSelectionImplementation.md
│
├── unity/                           🎮 Unity project
│   ├── Assets/
│   │   ├── Art/                     🎨 40 PNG images
│   │   ├── Audio/Sounds/            🎵 22 MP3 files
│   │   ├── Scripts/
│   │   │   ├── Characters/          👥 Character system
│   │   │   ├── UI/                  🖼️ UI components
│   │   │   ├── AI/                  🤖 AI integration
│   │   │   └── Managers/            ⚙️ Game managers
│   │   └── Scenes/
│   └── ProjectSettings/
│
├── ExecutiveDisorder.Core/          💻 Core C# logic
├── ExecutiveDisorder.Engine/        🎮 Game engine
├── backend/                         🐍 Flask AI backend
└── infrastructure/                  🐳 Docker/K8s
```

---

## 🎮 10 Political Characters

1. **Rex Scaleston III** - The Iguana King 🦎
2. **Donald J. Executive** - The 45th 💼
3. **POTUS-9000** - The AI President 🤖
4. **Alexandria Sanders-Warren** - The Progressive 🌟
5. **Richard M. Moneybags III** - The Corporate Lobbyist 💰
6. **General James 'Ironside' Steel** - The Military Hawk ⚔️
7. **Diana Newsworthy** - The Media Mogul 📺
8. **Johnny Q. Public** - The Populist 👨
9. **Dr. Evelyn Technocrat** - The Scientist 🔬
10. **Senator Marcus Tradition** - The Conservative 🏛️

Each character has unique stats, abilities, and playstyles!

---

## 🔧 Technical Stack

### Game Engine
- **Unity 6.2** with AI/ML capabilities
- **C# .NET 9.0** for core logic
- **Universal Render Pipeline (URP)**
- **TextMesh Pro** for UI text

### AI Integration
- **DALL-E 3** - Character portrait generation
- **GPT-5** - Content generation
- **ElevenLabs** - Voice synthesis
- **Unity Sentis** - Neural network inference
- **ML-Agents** - Reinforcement learning

### Backend
- **Python Flask** - REST API server
- **Docker** - Containerization
- **Kubernetes** - Orchestration

---

## 📊 Project Statistics

- **Total Documentation**: 8 comprehensive guides
- **Scripts Created**: 6 production-ready components
- **Lines of Code**: ~1,200 lines
- **Visual Assets**: 40 PNG files analyzed
- **Audio Assets**: 22 MP3 files mapped
- **Characters Defined**: 10 complete profiles
- **API Endpoints**: 12 AI features integrated

---

## 🎯 Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed
- [x] Character selection system architecture
- [x] 10 political characters fully defined
- [x] AI backend integration (portraits + voices)
- [x] Complete asset inventory and analysis
- [x] Production-ready Unity scripts
- [x] Comprehensive documentation (8 guides)
- [x] AudioManager integration
- [x] Testing tools (AIBackendTester)

### 🚧 To Implement (Your Tasks)
- [ ] Create character ScriptableObjects in Unity
- [ ] Build CharacterSelection scene
- [ ] Generate AI portraits for 8 characters
- [ ] Test AI backend connectivity
- [ ] Integrate with StateManager
- [ ] Test full game flow

---

## 🤖 AI Features

### Visual Generation (DALL-E 3)
- Character portraits
- Decision card artwork
- UI elements

### Content Generation (GPT-5)
- Decision cards
- Character profiles
- Ending scenarios
- Game balance analysis

### Audio Generation (ElevenLabs)
- Character voices
- Decision narration
- Media headlines

---

## 📚 Documentation Quick Links

| Document | Purpose | Read Time |
|----------|---------|----------|
| `QUICKSTART.md` | Get started immediately | 5 min |
| `docs/INDEX.md` | Documentation index | 3 min |
| `docs/ImplementationSummary.md` | Complete overview | 10 min |
| `docs/AssetInventoryAnalysis.md` | Asset deep dive | 15 min |
| `docs/CharacterDataSetup.md` | Character creation | 20 min |
| `docs/UnitySceneSetupGuide.md` | Scene building | 30 min |
| `docs/AIBackendQuickReference.md` | AI integration | 15 min |

---

## 🎨 Asset Highlights

### Backgrounds (Complete Time-of-Day System)
- ✅ Morning, Afternoon, Night variants
- ✅ Desk foreground layer
- ✅ Clean backgrounds for menus

### UI Elements
- ✅ All 4 resource icons
- ✅ Directional arrows (up/down)
- ✅ Circular portrait masks
- ✅ Warning and crisis graphics

### Audio Library
- ✅ Background music loops
- ✅ UI sound effects
- ✅ Crowd reactions
- ✅ Crisis alerts
- ✅ Ambient sounds

---

## 🚀 Next Steps

1. **Read QUICKSTART.md** - Understand what you have
2. **Review docs/INDEX.md** - Navigate documentation
3. **Follow UnitySceneSetupGuide.md** - Build the scene
4. **Test with AIBackendTester.cs** - Verify AI integration
5. **Generate character portraits** - Complete the visuals

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

---

## 📄 License

Specify your license here.

---

## 🎉 Ready to Build!

You have everything you need:
- ✅ Complete documentation
- ✅ Production-ready scripts
- ✅ Comprehensive asset library
- ✅ AI integration system
- ✅ 10 unique characters

**Start with**: `QUICKSTART.md` → `docs/UnitySceneSetupGuide.md` → Build!

Good luck! 🚀

Commit message:

🎮 Add generated game content
- 100 generated cards (data/cards/)
- 30 generated crises (data/crises/)
- 8 generated factions (data/factions/)
- 10 generated leaders (data/leaders/)
- Updated Unity game data JSON files
- Updated README and documentation
- Enhanced Unity Editor scripts

README.md, after:

# Executive Disorder

**A satirical political decision-making game where you manage a nation through chaos, scandal, and absurd situations.**

Balance 4 critical resources, interact with 10 unique political characters, and navigate 100+ decision cards to reach one of 10 unique endings.

*Democracy: Optional. Chaos: Guaranteed.*

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 🤖 Codex CLI Command

**Everything automated in one command:**
```bash
update
```

This triggers GitHub Copilot to assist Codex CLI with:
- ✅ Unity WebGL builds
- ✅ Automated commits & version control
- ✅ Build optimization & debugging
- ✅ Script creation & updates
- ✅ Documentation & deployment

### 🧱 Week 1 Scaffolding

- `bash scripts/codex-init.sh` — generates content from `theme.json`, imports it,
  and scaffolds the Boot/MainMenu/Gameplay scenes with UGUI ready to test.
- `dotnet run --project ExecutiveDisorder.Game` — validates the generated JSON
  before Unity runs.
- Main Menu now uses Unity UI (UGUI) with leader portraits, card grid, and a
  button that jumps into a placeholder gameplay loop for smoke testing.

👉 **Start here**: Read `QUICKSTART.md` for immediate setup, or run
`bash scripts/codex-init.sh` to provision data + scenes in one pass.

---

## 📦 What's Included

### ✅ Complete Character Selection System
- **10 Political Characters** - Fully defined with stats, bios, and abilities
- **Unity Scene Architecture** - Complete UI hierarchy and prefabs
- **AI Integration** - DALL-E 3 portraits + ElevenLabs voices
- **Audio System** - Full AudioManager integration
- **Production Scripts** - 6 ready-to-use C# components

### 🎨 Asset Library
- **40 PNG Images** - Backgrounds, characters, UI elements
- **22 MP3 Audio Files** - Music, SFX, ambience
- **Complete Time-of-Day System** - Morning/Afternoon/Night backgrounds
- **All Resource Icons** - Popularity, Stability, Media, Economy

### 📚 Comprehensive Documentation
- **8 Detailed Guides** - From quick start to technical specs
- **Asset Analysis** - Every file mapped and explained
- **Step-by-Step Tutorials** - Build scenes with confidence
- **AI Backend Reference** - Test and integrate AI features

---

## 🎯 Getting Started

### 1. Quick Overview (5 minutes)
```bash
Read: QUICKSTART.md
```

### 2. Understand Your Assets (10 minutes)
```bash
Read: docs/AssetInventoryAnalysis.md
```

### 3. Create Characters (30 minutes)
```bash
Read: docs/CharacterDataSetup.md
Then: Create 10 character ScriptableObjects in Unity
```

### 4. Build Character Selection Scene (45 minutes)
```bash
Read: docs/UnitySceneSetupGuide.md
Then: Follow step-by-step instructions
```

### 5. Test AI Integration (15 minutes)
```bash
Read: docs/AIBackendQuickReference.md
Then: Use AIBackendTester.cs to verify connectivity
```

**Total Time to Working Prototype**: 2-3 hours

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
ExecutiveDisorderReplit/
├── QUICKSTART.md                    ⭐ Start here!
├── README.md                        ← You are here
│
├── docs/                            📚 All documentation
│   ├── INDEX.md                     ← Documentation index
│   ├── ImplementationSummary.md     ← Complete overview
│   ├── AssetInventoryAnalysis.md    ← Asset deep dive
│   ├── AssetUsageMap.md             ← Visual asset guide
│   ├── CharacterDataSetup.md        ← 10 character definitions
│   ├── UnitySceneSetupGuide.md      ← Scene building steps
│   ├── AIBackendQuickReference.md   ← AI API documentation
│   └── CharacterSelectionImplementation.md
│
├── unity/                           🎮 Unity project
│   ├── Assets/
│   │   ├── Art/                     🎨 40 PNG images
│   │   ├── Audio/Sounds/            🎵 22 MP3 files
│   │   ├── Scripts/
│   │   │   ├── Characters/          👥 Character system
│   │   │   ├── UI/                  🖼️ UI components
│   │   │   ├── AI/                  🤖 AI integration
│   │   │   └── Managers/            ⚙️ Game managers
│   │   └── Scenes/
│   └── ProjectSettings/
│
├── ExecutiveDisorder.Core/          💻 Core C# logic
├── ExecutiveDisorder.Engine/        🎮 Game engine
├── backend/                         🐍 Flask AI backend
└── infrastructure/                  🐳 Docker/K8s
```

---

## 🎮 10 Political Characters

1. **Rex Scaleston III** - The Iguana King 🦎
2. **Donald J. Executive** - The 45th 💼
3. **POTUS-9000** - The AI President 🤖
4. **Alexandria Sanders-Warren** - The Progressive 🌟
5. **Richard M. Moneybags III** - The Corporate Lobbyist 💰
6. **General James 'Ironside' Steel** - The Military Hawk ⚔️
7. **Diana Newsworthy** - The Media Mogul 📺
8. **Johnny Q. Public** - The Populist 👨
9. **Dr. Evelyn Technocrat** - The Scientist 🔬
10. **Senator Marcus Tradition** - The Conservative 🏛️

Each character has unique stats, abilities, and playstyles!

---

## 🔧 Technical Stack

### Game Engine
- **Unity 6.2** with AI/ML capabilities
- **C# .NET 9.0** for core logic
- **Universal Render Pipeline (URP)**
- **TextMesh Pro** for UI text

### AI Integration
- **DALL-E 3** - Character portrait generation
- **GPT-5** - Content generation
- **ElevenLabs** - Voice synthesis
- **Unity Sentis** - Neural network inference
- **ML-Agents** - Reinforcement learning

### Backend
- **Python Flask** - REST API server
- **Docker** - Containerization
- **Kubernetes** - Orchestration

---

## 📊 Project Statistics

- **Total Documentation**: 8 comprehensive guides
- **Scripts Created**: 6 production-ready components
- **Lines of Code**: ~1,200 lines
- **Visual Assets**: 40 PNG files analyzed
- **Audio Assets**: 22 MP3 files mapped
- **Characters Defined**: 10 complete profiles
- **API Endpoints**: 12 AI features integrated

---

## 🎯 Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed
- [x] Character selection system architecture
- [x] 10 political characters fully defined
- [x] AI backend integration (portraits + voices)
- [x] Complete asset inventory and analysis
- [x] Production-ready Unity scripts
- [x] Comprehensive documentation (8 guides)
- [x] AudioManager integration
- [x] Testing tools (AIBackendTester)

### 🚧 To Implement (Your Tasks)
- [ ] Create character ScriptableObjects in Unity
- [ ] Build CharacterSelection scene
- [ ] Generate AI portraits for 8 characters
- [ ] Test AI backend connectivity
- [ ] Integrate with StateManager
- [ ] Test full game flow

---

## 🤖 AI Features

### Visual Generation (DALL-E 3)
- Character portraits
- Decision card artwork
- UI elements

### Content Generation (GPT-5)
- Decision cards
- Character profiles
- Ending scenarios
- Game balance analysis

### Audio Generation (ElevenLabs)
- Character voices
- Decision narration
- Media headlines

---

## 📚 Documentation Quick Links

| Document | Purpose | Read Time |
|----------|---------|----------|
| `QUICKSTART.md` | Get started immediately | 5 min |
| `docs/INDEX.md` | Documentation index | 3 min |
| `docs/ImplementationSummary.md` | Complete overview | 10 min |
| `docs/AssetInventoryAnalysis.md` | Asset deep dive | 15 min |
| `docs/CharacterDataSetup.md` | Character creation | 20 min |
| `docs/UnitySceneSetupGuide.md` | Scene building | 30 min |
| `docs/AIBackendQuickReference.md` | AI integration | 15 min |

---

## 🎨 Asset Highlights

### Backgrounds (Complete Time-of-Day System)
- ✅ Morning, Afternoon, Night variants
- ✅ Desk foreground layer
- ✅ Clean backgrounds for menus

### UI Elements
- ✅ All 4 resource icons
- ✅ Directional arrows (up/down)
- ✅ Circular portrait masks
- ✅ Warning and crisis graphics

### Audio Library
- ✅ Background music loops
- ✅ UI sound effects
- ✅ Crowd reactions
- ✅ Crisis alerts
- ✅ Ambient sounds

---

## 🚀 Next Steps

1. **Read QUICKSTART.md** - Understand what you have
2. **Review docs/INDEX.md** - Navigate documentation
3. **Follow UnitySceneSetupGuide.md** - Build the scene
4. **Test with AIBackendTester.cs** - Verify AI integration
5. **Generate character portraits** - Complete the visuals

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

---

## 📄 License

Specify your license here.

---

## 🎉 Ready to Build!

You have everything you need:
- ✅ Complete documentation
- ✅ Production-ready scripts
- ✅ Comprehensive asset library
- ✅ AI integration system
- ✅ 10 unique characters

**Start with**: `QUICKSTART.md` → `docs/UnitySceneSetupGuide.md` → Build!

Good luck! 🚀
